[RA2] cluster lcm in chapters 1 2 3 (#2373)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter03.md

lifecycle management of the applications they manage. The Reference Architecture
does not recommend the usage of a Kubernetes Application package manager with a
server side component installed to the Kubernetes Cluster (e.g.: Tiller).

> ## 3.3 CaaS Manager - Cluster Lifecycle Management

Reviewer: This should not be in the scope of RA2.

Reviewer: Add a note that further specification of this is out of scope for Kali.

Author: added

> In order to provision multiple Kubernetes clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant, clusters, the Reference

Reviewer: Kubernetes clusters -> Kubernetes Clusters

Author: fixed

> In order to provision multiple Kubernetes clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant, clusters, the the Reference

Reviewer 2: typo
```suggestion
In order to provision multiple Kubernetes clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant, clusters, the Reference
```

Architecture must provide support for a **CaaS Manager**: a component responsible for the Lifecycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.

> This component is responsible of delivering an end-to-end life cycle management (creation and installation, scaling, updating, deleting, etc., of entire clusters), visibility and control of CaaS clusters, along with verification of security and compliance of Kubernetes clusters across multiple data centres and clouds.

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
This component is responsible for delivering an end-to-end life cycle management (creation and installation, scaling, updating, deleting, etc., of entire clusters), visibility and control of CaaS clusters, along with verification of security and compliance of Kubernetes clusters across multiple data centres and clouds.
```

Specifically, the scope of the CaaS Manager includes:

- Infrastructure (Kubernetes Clusters) provisioning

>   - LCM of master/worker VM nodes - via IaaS API

Reviewer 2: should we change "master" to "control"?

Author: ok, changed

  - or Baremetal provisioning for physical nodes

> - Control plane installation (i.e. K8S control plane components on the nodes)

Reviewer: K8S -> K8s or Kubernetes

Author: fixed

- Node Host OS customisation (e.g. Kernel customisation)
- Management of Cluster add-ons (eg CNIs, CSIs, Service Meshes)

> The CaaS Manager should maintain a catalogue **clusters templates**, used to create clusters specific to the requirements of workloads, the underlying virtualisation provider and/or the specific server hardware to be used for the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Suggest
Typo
```suggestion
The CaaS Manager should maintain a catalogue of **clusters templates**, used to create clusters specific to the requirements of workloads, the underlying virtualisation provider and/or the specific server hardware to be used for the cluster.
```

## 3.3 CaaS Manager - Cluster Lifecycle Management

In order to provision multiple Kubernetes clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant, clusters, the Reference

> Architecture must provide support for a **CaaS Manager**: a component responsible for the Lifecycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.

Reviewer 2: To address some concerns about "what" and not "how", should we change this to:
Architecture must support the Life-cycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.

The complete sentence would then read:
In order to provision multiple Kubernetes clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant, clusters, the Reference Architecture must support the Life-cycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.

* Full lifecycle: Application lifecycle, storage lifecycle (backup, failure recovery).
* Deep insights: Metrics, alerts, log processing and workload analysis.
* Auto pilot: Horizontal/vertical scaling, automated configuration tuning, abnormality detection, scheduling tuning.

## 3.3 CaaS Manager - Cluster Lifecycle Management

> Note: *detailed requirements and component specification of cluster LCM are out of scope for this release.*

In order to provision multiple Kubernetes Clusters, which is a common scenario where workloads and network functions require dedicated, single-tenant Clusters, the Reference

> Architecture should provide support for a **CaaS Manager**, a component responsible for the Lifecycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Architecture provides support for a **CaaS Manager**, a component responsible for the Lifecycle Management of multiple Kubernetes Clusters.
```

This component is responsible for delivering an end-to-end life cycle management (creation and installation, scaling, updating, deleting, etc., of entire clusters), visibility and control of CaaS clusters, along with verification of security and compliance of Kubernetes clusters across multiple data centres and clouds.
Specifically, the scope of the CaaS Manager includes:

- Infrastructure (Kubernetes Clusters) provisioning
  - LCM of control/worker VM nodes - via IaaS API
  - or Baremetal provisioning for physical nodes
- Control plane installation (i.e. Kubernetes control plane components on the nodes)
- Node Host OS customisation (e.g. Kernel customisation)
- Management of Cluster add-ons (eg CNIs, CSIs, Service Meshes)

> The CaaS Manager should maintain a catalogue of **clusters templates**, used to create clusters specific to the requirements of workloads, the underlying virtualisation provider and/or the specific server hardware to be used for the cluster.

Reviewer 3: Should we avoid requirement style wording in this chapter?

```suggestion
The CaaS Manager maintains a catalogue of **clusters templates**, used to create clusters specific to the requirements of workloads, the underlying virtualisation provider and/or the specific server hardware to be used for the cluster.
```

The CaaS manager works by integrating with an underlying virtualisation provider for VM-based clusters, or with Bare Metal management APIs for physical clusters, to create Cluster nodes and provide other capabilities such as node scaling (e.g. provisioning a new node and attaching it to a cluster).

> A CaaS Manager should leverage the closed-loop desired state configuration management concept that Kubernetes itself enables. Meaning, the CaaS Manager takes the desired state of a CaaS Cluster as input and the controller must be able to maintain that desired state through a series of closed loops.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A CaaS Manager leverages the closed-loop desired state configuration management concept that Kubernetes itself enables. Meaning, the CaaS Manager takes the desired state of a CaaS Cluster as input and the controller must be able to maintain that desired state through a series of closed loops.
```
